[Applause]
[Music]
okay sorry about that just with all the
stress this camera has put me through
over the last six months i needed a
quick snack before i get started one
moment please
[Music]
the ripjaws km 570 mechanical keyboard
from g-skill features full rgb a simple
design cherry mx switches and more check
it out now at the link below
now red cameras are inherently difficult
to review because their modularity
allows nearly unlimited different
configurations so i'll focus on the
build that we chose for flexibility
today and easy adaptability for more
specialized rigs in the future
we ended up with more first party
accessories than many users because my
personal experience and anecdotal
evidence suggests that third-party
accessories can lead to compatibility
issues down the road and at least if we
experience a device failure there's only
one contact we need for support
something we did end up needing more on
that later
as for audio when linus did his original
unboxing for the weapon we had planned
to use the off hollywood omod but after
a few weeks it would be generous to say
that for 2500 it wasn't giving us the
audio quality we expected so when
beachtek offered to send us their new
dxa cine and dxa alexa we were really
excited to find a solution that didn't
compromise on quality or workflow
synchronizing audio in post is fine for
feature films but it's a nightmare for
our rigorous daily release schedule the
dxa alexa is our daily driver now thanks
to its two full-size xlr inputs and
phantom power but the dxa cine is
smaller gives you the same fine control
with hardware buttons and is much less
expensive if you're running and gunning
with powered mics like sennheiser's avx
system or something that doesn't need
power like a rode video might go
okay enough about audio let's talk about
the most obvious reason you want to buy
this camera the sensor in the weapon
body or brain as red likes to call it
their helium sensor shoots at a whopping
81.92 by 4320 at up to 60 frames per
second but the benefit of this is not
immediately obvious to the average
person it's not about publishing at 8k
for the dozen or so people out there
with ak displays it's about flexibility
in post being able to stabilize and
punch in with a very minimal loss in
image quality is great and for vfx work
it can be an absolute godsend but don't
take my word for it hello you're
probably wondering what the heck i'm
doing here my name is nico and i'm part
of a channel called corridor and we
shoot a lot of stuff on the red cameras
and linus and brandon asked me to
actually talk about resolution because
these cameras shoot up to 8k but tvs
only go up to 4k so why shoot in the
higher resolution if no one has a
display to watch it there's actually a
couple useful things that it does or
that enables a filmmaker to do for
example when you shoot ak footage you
can zoom into the footage reframe it
crop it pan and scan without any
noticeable loss of sharpness up to a
certain point of course but you can zoom
in 150 180 sometimes even 200 and you
can't tell that it was zoomed in david
fincher actually does this quite a bit
on house of cards it's one of the ways
he can get those perfect symmetrical
compositions because in post they'll go
in and reframe the frame to make it
perfect another thing you can do with
the extra resolution is get better
motion tracking because more resolution
means more detail to track more detail
to track means more points more points
means a better camera solve so for
visual effects artists the extra
resolution can be nice and finally
the thing that i find most useful is
down sampling so if you're shooting in
8k and you're delivering to a 4k
television
well you down sample that 8k 4k that
means that you take four pixels and
average them out to one pixel for
delivery so it makes your image cleaner
for example if it's underexposed or you
push the color grade quite a bit and
it's starting to get noisy that noise
starts to disappear and if you're
delivering to 1080p and you're shooting
in 8k that's a 16 to 1 pixel ratio so
you're taking 16 pixels averaging them
down to one pixel for 1080p delivery
meaning you have a lot more leeway with
getting grainy footage or pushing your
color grade and maybe it's not perfect
but once you downsample it that far it
looks really clean so there's a couple
different perks for a filmmaker to shoot
in a higher resolution and those are
just some of them anyways i hope that
was useful hope i could help a little
bit
and i'll give it back to brandon thanks
but resolution is actually just a small
part of the story here much more
important is helium's impressive 16.5
stops of dynamic range the 10 years of
work redis put into their color science
and the post-production flexibility
afforded by the proprietary red code raw
file format some of you might not know
this but outside of linus tech tips i
actually spend a great deal of my
personal time shooting shorts web series
and pretty stock footage that i mostly
don't get paid for but i do it because i
love it and i guess that's where the
weapon shines for me flexibility every
time i take it or it's little cousin the
epic w out into the world usually with a
ferocious guard dog to keep us both safe
it puts a big smile on my face both
during shooting and while reviewing
footage later this gear was obviously a
huge investment for us as a company but
shooting a mix of our daily releases our
bigger projects and my personal stuff
i've been hard pressed to find something
anything i can throw at in the real
world that it can't handle
and that's ignoring the fun yes i find
it fun upgrading the files in premiere
even at high compression ratios which
helps us save space on red's proprietary
mini mag ssds i am super impressed by
how much latitude there is especially
when trying to pull out details out of
dark areas of a scene even at a high iso
which is an area where the previous 6k
dragon sensors struggled not to mention
that as a relatively new red user the
ability to change iso or white balance
after the fact contribute a layer of
flexibility that i am still getting used
to
however this flexibility is not an
excuse for shooting incorrectly in the
first place like any piece of
professional equipment a red weapon does
not make you the next roger deakins sure
you can crank the iso to 2000 in an
effort to mask your lighting errors with
a high quality camera and a lot of
people would never notice but to truly
get the most out of it you have to be
aware that a camera has a native iso
where its dynamic range capabilities are
ideal and everything lighting makeup nd
filters exposure aperture shutter speed
everything needs to be balanced to get
the right amount of light on the sensor
if you want the highest quality digital
negative
and that's important because with red's
new image processing pipeline even users
of older red cameras can go back and
reprocess the red raw footage with ipp2
for a fairly significant improvement in
image quality it's still beta but it
shows a dedication to support that i
have to admire
okay so this is the dream camera that
everyone thinks it is right smooth
sailing right
well
actually like any camera nerd i was more
excited than i had almost ever been to
open a box when it arrived but from day
one until now we've had such a laundry
list of issues with both of our cameras
that i don't have enough time to talk
about all of them so i'll just give you
the highlights our biggest consistent
issue has been with our 960 gig mini max
i've heard the arguments defending red's
proprietary ssd media it's more reliable
and therefore worth the high cost but
any ssd can fail and while we haven't
actually lost any footage between these
stress inducing mounting issues and
having four of our 960g mags fail over a
span of six months i'm with linus on
this one the solution to reliable
storage remember this is a camera that
might be used for a 50 million dollar
production or higher is not three
thousand dollar mcat ssds no matter how
much pixie dust is in them the actual
solution to reliable storage is
redundancy two reds credit they offered
us a three year warranty upgrade for
both of our cameras with two free 960
gig mags as a way of saying sorry your
seven inch display mags weapon brain and
epic w brain twice had to be r made but
just speaking honestly as a customer
it's caused delays in our production
schedule and hasn't given us the warm
and fuzzy feeling that we should be
getting when we're buying the best of
the best
with all of that said however linus
might feel about the price tag we
clearly haven't boxed them back up for a
refund are they overkill for youtube
yes but does that mean we will continue
to bring you guys videos shot in 8k
anyway
also yes we aren't going to turn into
fanboys but the image quality and
flexibility have brought us into the red
ecosystem for the foreseeable future
one of the worst parts of being a small
business owner let's say you uh you're
an electrical contractor or something
like that
is dealing with accounting
it's complicated it's time consuming and
it doesn't have to be
freshbooks is the cloud-based accounting
software built for how you want to work
it's a simple way to be more productive
more organized and get paid faster you
can create and send professional looking
invoices in less than 30 seconds you can
set up online payments with just a
couple of clicks you can get paid on
your terms including taking deposits
through the platform and you can see
when your client has seen your invoice
to put an end to the guessing games for
an unrestricted 30-day free trial just
go to
www.freshbooks.com tech tips and enter
linus tech tips in the how did you hear
about us section
so thank you guys for watching if this
video sucked you know what to do but if
it was awesome get subscribed hit that
like button or check out where to buy
the stuff we feat well where to buy red
in the link in the video description
also linked in the description is our
merch store which you can buy cool
t-shirts not like this one and our
community forum which you should totally
join also let me know in the comments
down below if you guys want us to do a
video covering our 8k post workflow and
any further questions please hit me up
on instagram or twitter linked below